# Agenda for Monday

# 1.

Our draft passed its call for adoption with IETF LAMPS.
https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation
Hannes, Michael Richardson and I merged all the open pull requests and addressed almost all the open github issues.
I submitted draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation-00; currently pending the LAMPS chairs to accept it.
Yay. Progress.

# 2.

The big open design question in draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation is what I’m calling the “many-to-many evidenceStatements-to-certChains problem”.
As remote attestations mature, you can imagine that a CSR could contain many evidence statements: a key attestation, one or more platform attestations (ex.: the Attester contains multiple Target Environments from different chip manufacturers which each produce their own EvidenceStatement), 3rd party Endorsement statements, etc). All of that duplicated if you want it once on an RSA chain and once on a Dilithium chain.
Some of those things will have overlapping or identical cert chains (like a Key Attestation and Platform Attestation from the same Target Environment), and some will have unrelated cert chains.
How to elegantly transport that?

The current draft says that a CSR may contain any number of EvidenceStatements:

```
-- For PKCS#10
attr-evidence ATTRIBUTE ::= {
  TYPE EvidenceStatement
  IDENTIFIED BY id-aa-evidenceStatement
}

-- For CRMF
ext-evidence EXTENSION ::= {
  TYPE EvidenceStatement
  IDENTIFIED BY id-aa-evidenceStatement
}

EvidenceStatement {EVIDENCE-STATEMENT:EvidenceStatementSet} ::= SEQUENCE {
   type   EVIDENCE-STATEMENT.&id({EvidenceStatementSet}),
   stmt   EVIDENCE-STATEMENT.&Type({EvidenceStatementSet}{@type})
}
```

And optionally a single EvidenceCerts bag


```
-- For PKCS#10
attr-evidenceCerts ATTRIBUTE ::= {
  TYPE SEQUENCE OF CertificateChoice
  COUNTS MAX 1
  IDENTIFIED BY id-aa-evidenceChainCerts
}

-- For CRMF
ext-evidenceCerts EXTENSION ::= {
  TYPE SEQUENCE OF CertificateChoice
  COUNTS MAX 1
  IDENTIFIED BY id-aa-evidenceChainCerts
}
```

This “works” for all use-cases, and avoids duplication, but in the case of multiple unrelated cert chains, it forces the Verifier to do path-building on a big-ol’-unsorted-cert-bag.


@Carl Wallace proposed instead that we allow the CSR attribute to contain any number of EvidenceBundles, each of which may contain any number of EvidenceStatements and one optional cert bag.

```
attr-evidence ATTRIBUTE ::= {
  TYPE SEQUENCE OF EvidenceBundle,
  IDENTIFIED BY id-aa-evidenceStatement
}

EDNOTE: instead of SEQUENCE OF EvidenceBundle, it’s probably better to just allow this attribute to appear multiple times in an AttributeSet. Does that also work for CRMF EXTENSIONS?.

EvidenceBundle ::= SEQUENCE
  {
    evidence  SEQUENCE OF EvidenceStatement,
    certs SEQUENCE OF CertificateChoice OPTIONAL
  }

EDNOTE: I would leave it unspecified whether this is an ordered *chain* or un-ordered *bag*; I think that’s between the Attestor and its Verifier; the transport should not have an opinion.
```

Effectively this allows you to group EvidenceStatements that share a cert chain. And it means we’d only be registering one new Attribute type. Seems like a win.


# 3.

Continue with “Phase 2”: defining the actual “PKIX Key Attestation” format.

Two weeks ago I proposed a strawman (which you can find in the meeting notes from 2023-08-14). It did its job and generated some good discussion by email, even though we didn’t get a chance to talk about it at the last meeting. Let’s continue on that.
