# Attendance

Mike Ounsworth
Hannes Tschofenig
Henk Birkholtz
Mike StJohns
Eric Amador
Darren Johnson


# Discussions

## CSR-Attestation

Mike SJ pointed out that the EvidenceBundle ASN.1 structure does not work will if you have multiple evidence statements that share most of a cert chain, but differ in the leaf Attestation-signer certificate. In that case, the original design of a single detached cert bag works better.

ACTION: Hannes to start a Github Issue discussion thread on this topic.


# X.509 Evidence

## draft-x509-evidence

Hannes has done the work of putting together an -00.

https://github.com/EntrustCorporation/draft-x509-evidence

It is largely a reflection of the design group discussions up to this point, with the opinionated design choice to use X.509 as the statement format encoding and place the claims into individual Certificate Extensions. Those present on the call agreed with this design, noting that it will likely be favourable to TCG and related groups. Henk to socialize this draft with that community.

The -00 version wil have only Hannes and MikeO as authors, we are looking for a more rounded-out set of authors for -01. We will discuss during 118.

Publication path: RATS with Russ as designated expert for the certificate extension IANA registrations.

## Machine-readable NIST FIPS certificates

Currently, if a relying party wants to know whether a given device attestation corresponds to an active FIPS certification, they are required to check the NIST CAVP website.

Here is an example:
https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/certificate/4328

It would be very very nice if the Related Files section of that page included a machine-readable version of the data in that page, preferrably as a COSE signed CMW that could be included as an endorsement in a CSR. Henk to work with his contacts at NIST to see about doing a hackathon on this topic.