# Attendees

Mike Ounsworth
Michael Richardson (Guest)
Wiktor Sedkowski (Nokia)
AMADOR Eric
Smith, Ned
Jethro Beekman
JOHNSON Darren
Chris Trufan
Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)


# Discussion

1. CSR Attestation draft

We did a quick run-through of the open issues in github. We agreed those are ok to get fixed and merged -- on MikeO's TODO list.


2. HSM-specific evidence format

We finally got to discussing the strawman that MikeO put together based on RATS EAT in the 2023-08-14 notes.

This is a big topic and we'll need to continue going through the proposed claims one-by-one. Here are the work-in-progress notes:

Platform Attestation Evidence Claims

    atid [uint] -- NEW -- attestation ID; a universally unique identifier for this attestation. Any method for generating these is acceptable so long as the value is strictly increasing. Examples could include a dedicated counter, a boot counter, a system clock that cannot be reset by power failures or administrative action. I believe rats-eat does this with a combination of ueid+bootcount+bootseed, but for the purposes of cross-referencing key attestations to platform attestations, a single attestation ID would be helpful.
    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
2023-09-11: Ned suggested instead to use a loosely-defined concept of "epoch" -- draft-ietf-rats-epoch-markers https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-birkholz-rats-epoch-markers/ or similar. Jethro suggested that this field is optional, so if the device thinks it has a timestamp then might as well have a place to put it.
    
    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level.
    fips_boot [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    fips_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "140-2_lvl2"
    cc_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "EAL 4+"
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.

If any of these values change during operation, the device MUST produce a new attestation.


As a CA, I want to know:
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
Also bootloader version? -- Thales has this to include.
so that I can go look up the certificate for that on the FIPS website.
and
    fips_boot [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    
These probably need to be an endorsement. Or maybe it's sufficient to just look up the hwmodel in the CMVP website.
    fips_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "140-2_lvl2"
    cc_level [string] -- NEW -- there must be a naming convention such as "EAL 4+"
to ensure that the device is running in a FIPS-compliant mode.

Some sort of endorsement -- signed by the vendor or signed by NIST CMVP -- claiming that a certain HSM model has a certain level of FIPS certification.


We should allow for an optional Endorsement (when we draw the architecture diagram). And also for reference values to be provided to the verifier (that's for HSMs that don't themselves have a concept of "FIPS Mode", but they can tell you all the configuration of their boot and let the verifier decide if that meets the bar for "FIPS Mode".


Key Attestation Evidence Claims

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- a description of the purpose of this key
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.

