# Agenda

1. MikeO presented last week on this work to the CA/B Forum. The talk was well-received. 
The core message of the presentation was that PKI has a problem of not being able to tell where subscriber private keys are stored in an automated and robust way. I pitched Remote Attestation technology in general and our drafts in particular as the solution, and I think it was well-received.
Key points:
    1. I said that the CSR Attest format to carry existing proprietary attestations should be usable within the year.
    2. The RATS X.509 Evidence work is probably a couple years away from being usable and will probably have a "new devices only" feel; though in some cases it might be possible to retrofit in-field devices.
    3. How the trust stores will be managed is an open question. Likely each CA will manage their own, so each HSM vendor will have to work with each CA. It was suggested that PKI Consortium could maintain a wiki linking to each vendor's web page with their attestation root keys and tooling and docs for parsing their attestations.

3. I want to make progress on the Key Evidence claims.
_imported_: semantically we want this flag to mean "This private key has never in the past existed in plaintext outside an HSM".
_non-exportable_: semantically we want this flag to mean "This private key can never in the future exist in plaintext outside an HSM".

We want to avoid wording this so that we accidentally forbid backups and HSM clustering (see SP 800-208 fiasco).

Possibly we want our _non-exportable_ to be equivalent to PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE.
Does P11 have a concept that can be mapped to our _imported_?

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/



# Attendance

Mike Ounsworth
AMADOR Eric
Daniel Migault
Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
Tomofumi Okubo
JOHNSON Darren
Wiktor Sedkowski (Nokia)
Mohsen Zohrevandi
Laffey, Tom (HPE Aruba)
Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
Stein, A.J. Mr. (Fed)
Birkholz, Henk
Smith, Ned
John K
Willard 'Monty' Wiseman

# Discussions

First, MikeO gave a recap of his presentation last week to the CA/Browser Forum (see notes above).

We then discussed Hannes' PR with example uses:
https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation/pull/64/files

ACTION: 
During the discussion, we realized that we need more normative text to forbid the Attestor from splitting Evidence statements or certificate chains across EVidenceBundles in such a way that causes Relying Party implementations to be extremely complex; and violates the abstraction layer that RPs need only be aware of the semantics of Attestation Results, and MUST NOT need any semantic knowledge of the Evidence Statements. In particular, we want normative text so that RPs MUST be able to take a single EvidenceStatement and the certificates that accompany it within its EvidenceBundle and use that to make a single invocation of a single Verifier.

We had a lengthy debate about what we expect Attestations / Evidence Statements to look like, and therefore if it is possible to simplify the CSR transport mechanism.

Ned and Monty said that within TGC specs, you assume that a composite device will include a Lead Attester that produces a single Evidence Statement on behalf of the entire device (that Evidence Statement itself may be composite, but for the purposes of this CSR transport mechanism, we can assume that there will only ever be a single Target Environment).

MikeO believes that model does not cover the usecases of "Big" HSMs. The motivating example is an HSM which is backing a key vault in a public cloud like AWS or Azure. The typical way this is handled is that the cloud provider will create inside the HSM a separate "partition" for each of their customers / tenants / accounts. The term "partition" is undefined, but MikeO chose it because each HSM vendor seems to handle multi-tenancy differently. The open question is whether HSM vendors will implement this in a way that is covered by the TCG usecases -- ie we can model it as a Lead Attestor producing a single Attestation; or whether we need to accomodate the usecase where there are essentially multiple Lead Attesters / multiple Target Environments within a single CSR. Note: 3rd party Endorsements are different; we are trying to get a grasp on whether one attesting cert chain will ever produce multiple independent Evidence Statements.

The discussion centered around the slide [CSR_Attestation_example.png](./CSR_Attestation_example.png) from MikeO's CAB/F slide deck, and whether that actually represents a valid usecase. Eric Amoder indicated that it does, but more input from other HSM vendors would be helpful.

MikeO pointed out that since forming this group in April 2023, we have lost participation from many of the HSM vendors (which was our motivating usecase) and their voices have been diluted by more TCG participants.

ACTION: 
MikeO to start a dedicated reach-out to HSM vendors to capture the "Platform" vs "Partition" separation usecase that exists for HSMs but not for TPMs.
