# Agenda

1. Any remaining business for CSR Attest draft.
2. Discuss design goals of PKIX Attestation work.

# Attendance

* Mike Ounsworth
* Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
* Mohsen Zohrevandi
* Dieter Bong
* Smith, Ned
* Kemp, John
* JOHNSON Darren
* Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
* Ranjan, Rajeev (T CST SEA-DE)
* Willard 'Monty' Wiseman
* Birkholz, Henk



# Discussions

LAMPS > csr-attestation

Draft will be ready for WGLC once two minor points are resolved:

1. Need completed sample -- IETF 119 hackathon objective. Monty has posted shell scripts to generate a TPM attestation in the correct format, we just need to wrap that inside openssl scripts to put that into a CSR for the same subject key.
https://github.com/mwiseman-byid/csr-attestation-tpm-example

2. The new registry pointing to attestation formats from other SDOs; how exactly will that interact with TCG; more importantly do we need to change the currect document, or can we sort out how TCG wants their stuff cross-referenced within the constructs of how the registry table is currently laid out?



RATS > x509-evidence

Great continued discussion on what the goals are, following on JP's presentation of the Crypto4A format in our last meeting.

"PKIX Attestation" group goals

Focus: Network & PCIe HSMs
   TPMs already have a suite of well-defined attestation formats, we are trying to do the equivalent for the HSM community.
   
   
Usecases
  - Key attestations -- for example to place inside a CSR.
	- Is this key in hardware? FIPS? Keygen date? Storage attributes for the private key?
	- Attesting some properties of the platform come indirectly into scope, but no need to directly attest the platform.
	- In a CSR for meeting CA/B F. rules.
	- More general attestation formats would enable HSM fleet monitoring type solutions.
	- Maybe we should define an attestation format where the key attribute is optional so that it can be used for platform attestations later on. (note: TCG solves the same problem by allowing both X.509 SubjectKey certs, and also Attribute Certs as attestation statements).
  - Operators may onboard the HSM into their own Attesation Trust hiararchy, and either inject a new On-Device Attesation Key to the HSM, or certify the existing AK in their PKI. "Take ownership".
  - Offboarding audit logs; attest that audit logs come from a given HSM.
  - "Mandatory-to-implement" minimum set of claims? Or all optional? JP suggests that all claims be optional and the client requesting the attestation from the HSM can request the set of claims that it wants included in the produced attestation. (that plays well with a nonce, for example). Ned countered that the way most hardware does it today, the claimset profiles are baked in at the hardware level.
  - Do we want to build-in a mechanism for multiple signatures (envisioning PQ hybrids), or counter-signatures? (this would more-or-less rule out X.509 as a carrier format).


# Ongoing claim set

Here is the ongoing list of claims:

Platform Evidence
---

    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    hwserial [string] -- NEW -- 
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level. Do we also need to somehow list user extension modules (ex.: nShield CodeSafe) that are running.
    fips_mode [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.


Key Evidence
---

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- NEW -- a description of the purpose of this key
    Permissions / KeyUsage [enum] ? -- NEW -- Sign, Decrypt, Unwrap, etc.. 
    key_unique_to_device [bool] brought up by JP. Fiset because the C4A evidence currently has this. Question: is this redundant with PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE ?
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.
    Lifetime / expiry ??

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/
