# Agenda

1. We're not considering Passport model (see #66). We imagine that carrying ARs in CSRs is a useful thing to do, but it is such a monumental scope creep of this document, that we would prefer it to be its own I-D with a new top-level CSR Attribute.

draft-x509-evidence

1. EAT UEID -- fine for greenfield devices that can give themselves a RATS identifier, but we also need a 

2. Scoping discussion
I think we are due for a scoping conversation: how big a kettle are we building? Are we boiling a cup or tea or an ocean? For my purposes, I would be happy for draft-x509-evidence to be “Things a CA/B F. CA cares about when issuing publicly-trusted Code Signing certs (and maybe in the future TLS certs, if those BRs get updated to require hardware key storage)”. That’s probably the minimally-viable cup of tea. The next layer out would be “Claims that are common functionality to all rack-mounted HSMs”, then “… rack mounted HSMs and TPMs”, then DICE, then network routing equipment, etc etc.


# Attendance

* Mike Ounsworth
* Dieter Bong
* Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
* AMADOR Eric
* Kemp, John
* Daniel Migault
* Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
* Willard 'Monty' Wiseman
* Birkholz, Henk
* Stein, A.J. Mr. (Fed)
* Chris Trufan
* Smith, Ned


# Discussions

LAMPS > csr-attestation

Discussed at some length about freshness and the current wording of security consideration section 7.1. We all agree that freshness is good, but that CSRs need to work in edge-cases where freshness is not possible (ex.: HSMs in air-gapped networks where a challenge round-trip is not possible and the device does not have access to NTP and so has an un-reliable system clock), and even is cases where there is a notion of freshness, the exact freshness mechanism will be specific to the Evidence statement type and/or the certificate management protocol -- ex.: one HSM vendor may use an Epoch-based freshness mechanism, while another uses a clock-based mechanism; or a cert management protocol like ACME or CMP might build in their own freshness mechanism -- so Evidence freshness really does not belong at the CSR wrapper layer specified in this I-D.

So we are all agreed on what the goal is, and we all have homework to re-read 7.1 and see if it is saying that clearly enough.

Discussions on this point are happening in:
https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation/issues/80
https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation/issues/84




Discussed at some length the OID references registry

https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation/pull/83

Basically, implementors writing Relying Parties against this spec will ask "Ok, but where can I find a list of all the OIDs that I can expect to see show up in EvidenceStatement.type?". 
So this document will instruct IANA to create a new registry that is a collection of, and references to, Attestation Evidence format OIDs that have been registered elsewhere. The proposed format for the table is:

| OID              | Description                | Reference(s)   | Change Controller |
|------------------|----------------------------|----------------|-------------------|
| 2 23 133 5 4 10  | DICE Evidence              | {{TCGDICE1.1}} |  TCG              |
| 2 23 133 5 4 9   | Conceptual Message Wrapper | {{TCGDICE1.1}} |  TCG              |




RATS > x509-evidence

We really want to get the CSR draft shipped so that we can dedicate more time to the x509-evidence draft than just the last 8 minutes of every meeting.

We discussed that for draft-x509-evidence, the main driver is "big" HSMs which currently do not have any standardized Evidence formats, and who prefer to stay in ASN.1. The conversation has so far been dominated with discussion of how to make this format appropriate for TPMs. We have decided to, for now, sideline all TCG / TPM / DICE discussion, focus on satisfying the core HSM usecase, and then at the end we can come back and then at the end come back to whether the resulting Evidence format would have any value for TPMs to implement.




# Ongoing claim set

Here is the ongoing list of claims:

Platform Evidence
---

    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    hwserial [string] -- NEW -- 
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level. Do we also need to somehow list user extension modules (ex.: nShield CodeSafe) that are running.
    fips_mode [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.


Key Evidence
---

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- NEW -- a description of the purpose of this key
    Permissions / KeyUsage [enum] ? -- NEW -- Sign, Decrypt, Unwrap, etc.. 
    key_unique_to_device [bool] brought up by JP. Fiset because the C4A evidence currently has this. Question: is this redundant with PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE ?
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.
    Lifetime / expiry ??

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/
