# Agenda

1. Pass through PRs and open Issues on github.
  1. Monty and Hannes to overview their Examples PRs.
2. Continue design work on RATS X.509 Evidence.
  1. JP Fiset to present Crypto4A background work on HSM-specific Key Attestation format.

# Attendance

* Mike Ounsworth
* Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
* Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
* JOHNSON Darren
* Dieter Bong
* Mohsen Zohrevandi
* Willard 'Monty' Wiseman
* Tomofumi Okubo
* Stein, A.J. Mr. (Fed)
* Michael Richardson (Guest)
* Daniel Migault


# Discussions

LAMPS > csr-attestation

Monty and Hannes' Examples PRs are ready for merging (except for formatting or merge conflicts). MikeO to do this before the 119 submission cutoff deadline on Mar 4.



RATS > x509-evidence

JP from Crypto4A presented the Crypto4A Attestation format for the group. The PDF document was circulated to the group.

I think this is a good time to reflect that the CSR work has dominated this design group so far, and the Evidence Format work has happened very piecewise and disjointedly. We should re-evaluate the design goal and scope to decide how big an ocean we are trying to boil. Perhaps we should be trying to reduce the set of claims to the bare minimum mandatory-to-implement claims (each represented by an OID) that a public CA needs, and then allow for extension with future standards or proprietary claims. Perhaps X.509, while common for carrying Attestations, is not the most elegant format, and a new outer ASN.1 structure should be used. We should also think about nesting-vs-flattening of platform attestations, multple key attestations, and potentially attestations of other types of HSM objects.
Going into IETF 119, this is a good opportunity to review the C4A document, and restructure the proposal here.


# Ongoing claim set

Here is the ongoing list of claims:

Platform Evidence
---

    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    hwserial [string] -- NEW -- 
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level. Do we also need to somehow list user extension modules (ex.: nShield CodeSafe) that are running.
    fips_mode [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.


Key Evidence
---

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- NEW -- a description of the purpose of this key
    Permissions / KeyUsage [enum] ? -- NEW -- Sign, Decrypt, Unwrap, etc.. 
    key_unique_to_device [bool] brought up by JP. Fiset because the C4A evidence currently has this. Question: is this redundant with PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE ?
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.
    Lifetime / expiry ??

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/
