# Agenda

1. We're not considering Passport model (see #66). We imagine that carrying ARs in CSRs is a useful thing to do, but it is such a monumental scope creep of this document, that we would prefer it to be its own I-D with a new top-level CSR Attribute.

2. Close all PRs and Issues. Publish new version to Datatracker and prepare for WGLC.




# Attendance

- Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
- Mohsen Zohrevandi
- Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
- Willard 'Monty' Wiseman
- Wiktor Sedkowski (Nokia)
- Stein, A.J. Mr. (Fed)
- Daniel Migault
- JOHNSON Darren
- Birkholz, Henk

# Discussions

draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation
---

https://github.com/lamps-wg/csr-attestation/pulls

We merged a number of open PRs, and in the process found a couple more things to fix (mainly that the examples in the appendix are out of date).

So still not ready for WGLC, but getting closer.


draft-ounsworth-rats-x509-evidence
---

Some further discussion of the goals, which are really:

1) As a CA, I want to have a single RFC-compliant Evidence parser and parse Evidence from any hardware manufacturer to parse out basic info like: is the key in hardware and marked no-exportable? Who is the hardware manufacturer? Is the device FIPS certified and is it currently running in FIPS mode? If I want more detailed information about the configuration of this devices, then I will need to parse the vendorInfo blob with a vendor-specific parser.

2) As a hardware vendor, I want the claims in this generic Evidence format to be a subset of claims that I already support. That means that the claims for this Evidence format should pull claims from existing definitions; for example A) other standards such as PKCS#11, and B) the intersection of the proprietary Evidence formats of all the participating HSM vendors -- for example if every HSM vendor has a concept of "This key is under dual control", then that would be a candidate for inclusion in the generic claim set.

Looking back at the meeting notes, we've tried to start this work about 6 times over 4 months, but keep getting drawn back into working on the CSR Attest draft. Hopefully we get the CSR Attest draft into WGLC soon and we can really focus on this and make meaningful progress.


Here is the ongoing list of claims:

Platform Evidence
---

    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level. Do we also need to somehow list user extension modules (ex.: nShield CodeSafe) that are running.
    fips_mode [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.


Key Evidence
---

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- a description of the purpose of this key
    key_unique_to_device [bool] brought up by JP. Fiset because the C4A evidence currently has this. Question: is this redundant with PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE ?
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.
    Lifetime / expiry ??

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/
