# Agenda

1. Any business relating to the CSR-Attest draft.
2. Discussion of where this group goes from here.

# Attendance

* Mike Ounsworth
* Jean-Pierre Fiset (Crypto4A)
* Mohsen Zohrevandi
* Smith, Ned
* Tschofenig, Hannes (T CST SEA-DE)
* Stein, A.J. MR. (Fed)
* Michael Richardson
* AMADOR Eric



# Discussions

## LAMPS > csr-attestation

We asked on the LAMPS mailing list on May 10 to start WGLC. No movement. We sent a private email to poke the LAMPS chairs.

Ned is working an another example for the appendices. He will submit a Pull Request shortly.

## Where to go next?

We have two potential work items:

1. Continuing work on a standardized HSM-specific Evidence format. Essentially, this means contituing to work on the RATS document draft-ounsworth-rats-x509-evidence.

Entrust, as a CA, has a great interest in this work since it would greatly simplify our lives vs continuing to need to implement one parser per hardware vendor.
We have some support to work on this from the participating HSM vendors (nShield, Thales, Crypto4A, Utimaco).
DECISION: this design team will continue this work.
ACTION: MikeO and Hannes to meet privately over the next two weeks and see if we can take group discussions over the past few months and see if we can forge it into a contrete proposal.

2. New work to define how to place proprietary attestation data (Evidence, Endorsements, Attestation Results) into X.509v3 certificates.

 Essentially, this would be a new I-D that uses the same EvidenceBundle ASN.1 structures as in draft-ietf-lamps-csr-attestation, but now allows them to be used as X.509v3 extensions. Technically, this is straightforward, but the Implementation Considerations and Security / Privacy Considerations will be quite complex to write.
 The problem is that certificates are long-lived objects, usually with some non-trivial amount of time between the notBefore and notAfter; yet attestation data is typically point-in-time data about the state of a system at some specific point; the concept of nonces and freshness are integral to attestation. During a 30 minute discussion, we couldn't come up with a usecase that reconciles those two things in a meaningful way
 DECISION: we will not work on this until someone can produce a meaningful usecase on which we can work.


# Ongoing claim set

Here is the ongoing list of claims:

Platform Evidence
---

    ueid -- rats-eat-4.2.1 -- could be device serial number, or equivalent
    oemid [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.3
    hwmodel [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.4
    hwversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.5
    hwserial [string] -- NEW -- 
    swname [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.6
    swversion [string] -- rats-eat-4.2.7
    ? oemboot [bool?] -- rats-eat-4.2.8 -- Note: this gets tricky for HSMs that allow custom firmware into a secure enclave. Should we find a way to note what is loaded into these environments?
    dbgstat (Debug Status) [enum] -- rats-eat-4.2.9 -- values: {Enabled, Disabled, Disabled-Since-Boot, Disabled-Permanently, Disabled-Fully-and-Permanently}
    ? uptime [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.11 -- seconds since last boot. Useful in an HSM context?
    ? bootcount [uint] -- rats-eat-4.2.12 -- Useful in an HSM context?
    ? dloas (Digital Lettels of Approval) [?] -- rats-eat-4.2.14 -- ex FIPS or CC certifications. -- Do we really want to carry these in the attestation, or is it sufficient to be able to look up the oemid and hwmodel in the public records?
    ? manifests (Software Manifests) -- rats-eat-4.2.15 -- A manifest of all software components on the device. We probably don't want this?
    ? submods [string] - rats-eat-4.2.18 -- This might be useful to indicate, for example, that this platform attestation was produced at the partition level rather than at the root device level. Do we also need to somehow list user extension modules (ex.: nShield CodeSafe) that are running.
    fips_mode [bool] -- NEW -- The cryptographic module was booted in FIPS mode, including the required self-tests.
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.


Key Evidence
---

    iat (timestamp) [choose-our-favourite-date-format] -- rats-eat-4.3.1 -- if the device has a system clock, might as well throw it in.
    patid [uint] -- platform attestation id -- the platform attestation that was active at the time this key attestation was created.
        Note: by referencing a platform attestation, all fields contained in the platform attestation are implied to also be contained in this key attestation with the exception of atid and iat which are specific to that platform attestation.
    keyid [string] -- whatever the platform uses as key identifiers
    pubkey [bytes] -- the public portion of the keypair being attested
    purpose [string] ? -- NEW -- a description of the purpose of this key
    Permissions / KeyUsage [enum] ? -- NEW -- Sign, Decrypt, Unwrap, etc.. 
    key_unique_to_device [bool] brought up by JP. Fiset because the C4A evidence currently has this. Question: is this redundant with PKCS#11 !CKA_EXTRACTABLE && CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE ?
    non-exportable [bool] -- can only be exported in a non-usable form for the purposes of disaster recovery and bound by the same controls that are asserted in this attestation; ie the controls cannot be weakened via a backup & restore procedure. Question: has FIPS defined the term "non-exportable"?
    dual-control [bool] -- management operations on this key require the presence of two administrative users. Question: has FIPS defined the term "dual-control"?
    Imported [bool] – NEW – The private key was generated outside the cryptographic module boundary and imported. Note that secure transfer or backup & restore does count as imported; this flag is meant to indicate whether this key material has ever existed in plaintext outside of the hardware boundary. Question: has FIPS defined the term "Imported"?
    fips_mode [bool] -- this key is compliant with FIPS, including that the private key has only been handled by certified modules booted in FIPS mode, and that the key is using a CAVP-certified algorithm. Question: has FIPS defined the term "FIPS mode"?
    vendorInfo [bytes] -- NEW -- a place for the vendor to place propriatary data.
    nonce [bytes] -- NEW -- if the caller has some form of freshness nonce to provide, then this is the field in which to echo it back.
    Lifetime / expiry ??

References to draw key properties from:
* the PKCS#11 spec defines a list of key storage properties. We can borrow that list into this evidence claim.
    * http://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc416959720
    * Looking specifically at Table 27    
* TPM profile: PSA
    * https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/crypto/1.1/api/keys/attributes.html
    * https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/issues/13
* TPM 2.0
    * https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-2-0-keys-for-device-identity-and-attestation/
